[Music]
I mean it is part of the normal yeah and
why yeah you know I I I learn very late
that um um hearing voices does not have
to be a psychotic symptom um for me my
my understanding is that
I was the victim of uh uh childhood
sexual um uh uh incestuous sexual
abuse and there is a proven correlation
between victims of uh childhood sexual
abuse and the development of voices
voice hearing you know there's lots of
research that um has found that to be
the case so I definitely feel that um uh
I certainly suffer with paranoia I
certainly do suffer for paranoia and uh
and for that I have a very small dose of
alanine to sort of help keep that in
check um but yeah my belief and really
it is about our beliefs about diagnosis
and symptoms you know one of the really
freeing things about one of uh my other
uh problems has been uh alcoholism
fortunately I've been sober for the last
11 years and it's been the greatest 11
years of my life uh the freedom from
alcoholism and uh the wonderful thing
about alcoholism it doesn't matter about
what other people believe it's what you
believe you know no one cares if the
doctor tells them they're an alcoholic
it's for you to decide if you're an
alcoholic and for me I know that I
struggle with voices with paranoia
um um uh but I I I largely am able to
manage that
myself um and I found ways of living uh
a more productive life outside of the
service rather than within but it's what
works the people I always tried to steer
clear of prescriptive solutions for
people it's what works for you as an
individual
yeah thank you Chris Sarah go ahead
thank
you Chris I have another question for
you um because you brought up the issue
of par paranoia I I don't use that term
a lot but but I I it's an interesting
term um I I first started looking into
paranoia and I discovered um the work of
a of a a individual named Pete Peter
bulmer you might have heard of Pete no I
to look that up yeah tell me about there
well Pete Pete is a trauma survivor he's
a sexual trauma Survivor he lives in the
UK um he was formerly institutionalized
and he formed an organization called the
paranoia Network so I I when I heard
about Pete's work um it was because a a
an organization called The Wildflower
Alliance which is on in Massachusetts
was sponsoring Pete to come to uh a
state in the eastern United States
called Florida and so when we found out
about him um our family flew out to
Florida and we stayed there um for the
duration of Pete's two-day training and
I found it enormously helpful for our
whole family um to take the stigma of
paranoia off my daughter's shoulders and
for all of us to explore as a family how
how we were all where we all were on the
spectrum of paranoia and I didn't even
realize before Pete presented this way
that uh paranoia is actually a spectrum
and all all of us fall on the Spectrum
and we kind of come and go on the
Spectrum depending on our Chang life
circumstances fluctuate yeah you know
sometimes if someone hasn't replied uh
to a text message within five minutes
I'm absolutely
catastrophizing and and think the worst
possible sort of
reason other times other times I can go
weeks and weeks and weeks and I hardly
notice it um but um it's interesting you
you mentioning that that guy one of the
things that helped me uh re-evaluate my
relationship with my voices was Ron
Coleman have you come across Ron colan
oh yeah I just got back from um their
house in the aisle of Lewis two weeks
ago I went training I know Ron and Karen
well and their children yeah and and
certainly you know for years and years
and years I was told by mental health
professionals do not listen to your
voices and definitely don't talk to them
and I met Ron and Karen and they
encouraged me to have a dialogue with my
voices and that has made more progress
than years and years and years of
counseling uh antis psychotic medication
and uh institutional care it was so
liberating it really was um yeah I can't
talk more highly in it and you talking
about your whole family going to see
this person in Florida you know the
things that uh have helped me
um have helped my family and my friends
and we all share in that and it helps
them understand me but it also helps me
understand
them um and and I was thinking of you
Sarah that certainly in the UK um there
there still is this sense that um carers
particularly family members are are
somehow implicit in uh someone's illness
uh that they are an active uh element to
for that uh illness and for me that
that's a form of fascism you know I I
see families as potential allies um in
in the struggle to to manage the the
illness um and they shouldn't be seen uh
through suspicious eyes as as part of
the problem we've got to leave those
those those assumptions uh where they
belong in the distant
past thank you Chris looking forward to
read the chapter it
sorry it must be
wonderful oh thank you sorry now do you
know when it's going to be published
because IA yes we're we're talking about
it going is with the public now so
they're talking about going to print uh
uh January next year I've been in
contact with nutmeg nutmeg H I think you
know don't you HRI and that's her uh
recent response to me that it should be
about January next year so when it's
published perhaps we'll all come
together and and and celebrate
that I certainly won't be working for
the NHS anymore
thank you everyone I think I'll leave it
there H if that's okay with you and give
others a chance but I'm gonna stay I'm
gonna stay and listen to everyone else
now it's s's turn and
you thank you both of you to be here as
well thank you Chris thank
you well that kind of segu pretty nicely
to my presentation doesn't it enry
because uh that there's so much
overlapping I had no idea there'd be so
much more so much overlapping between my
presentation and
Chris's indeed it's
wonderful sah
uh I'm not going to introduce you you
are part of Mind freedom and please go
ahead okay well um so without further
Ado um as he stated I my name is Sarah
Smith and I am with mind Freedom
International um and I feel I I was I'm
feeling kind of empowered to tell part
of my personal story because of of
Chris's feedback so thank you Chris for
that feedback because my personal
narrative overlaps my daughter's
narrative and I don't always have a
clear sense of what is okay to share
publicly um so what when I'm not when
I'm feeling less clear about how to
share my daughter's story I kind of go
back to my fall back or my default
position which is I I am using my
personal story I witnessing my
daughter's story in the mental health
system in the United States her her
abusive treatment and um maybe parts of
her recovery to kind of fuel my activism
and my activism stems for a really
firm belief that we need to have a
global revolution in mental health
system so it was very very inspiring for
me to meet uh Darius virtually of just
about an hour ago because he he I I
consider him to be like a major founder
of the uh crpd C crpd or convention on
the rights of P people with disabilities
so
um you know that that was very spiring
for me um so going forth in This Global
revolution of mental health you know you
have to take this big huge Global
problem with lots of moving parts and
with many different battlefronts and you
have to distill it down into what can I
do as just one person in my community
and that's where I C come in because I
met David Oaks 30 years ago um in the
environmental movement and you could say
we both shared um some
anti-authoritarian streaks we both
shared our concern for the environment
the degradation of the environment and
we participated in Acts of Civil
Disobedience to save some of the last
remaining old growth forests in Oregon
Oregon is a part of this ecosystem
that's rich and diverse and rare and
wonderful um but it's also been
exploited by by you know for the world
is really hungry for Timber and and I'm
not opposed to people living and houses
made of wood but I am opposed to
mismanaging Federal forests in the
United States so that they're not
enjoyable uh it's not a resource for
future generations and I'm I'm opposed
to obliterating species which depend on
Old growth forest so anyway in that
context I met David Oaks and David Oaks
um at the time I I was sort of aware of
his story but I wasn't like entirely I
intimately aware of it it didn't come to
later but um David Oaks is the founder
of my organization mind Freedom organ uh
one of the co-founders M of Mind freedom
and David uh had been locked up at as in
his undergraduate years at at Harvard
University he was locked up several
times in a mental hospital and forcibly
drugged and and subjected to solitary
confinment and I that's his story
although I was vaguely aware of it at
the time I became friends with David it
didn't seem to kind of dominate his life
and and and it wasn't until later he
founded the organization and then my own
daughter became a victim of Psychiatry
that the Mi the mission of Mind freedom
and David's story all kind of came
together at colest and it became really
important to me so I've been working for
mind freedom I was introduced to it by
my friendship with David Oaks and um
when David had a life-altering physical
accident in which he broke his neck he's
David Oaks the co co-founder of Mind
freedom is currently paralyzed he took
medical leave of absence that was over
10 years ago and so it could have left
mind Freedom virtually rudderless and
leaderless had we not had a really
devoted board of directors and they put
mind Freedom kind of on life support for
a couple years then I was drawn in um to
adopt many of of uh David's uh former
responsibilities and I kept mind Freedom
going and one of the now it's growing
it's it's in a really I I I guess you
would say a recovery mode um and we're
doing really good progress bringing it
back to some of our membership you know
back to its former State when it had an
executive full-time executive director
and I'm I'm proud of my part in that um
and I'm really proud of our board of
directors most of all because they
prioritized one of the program programs
of Mind Freedom that it was really
important to save which is called our
Shield program and our Shield program is
one of the things I'm really really most
proud about because it takes the the
stories or the narratives like the the
ones that Chris is Chris Mt is
collecting and Publishing it's taking
those stories in real time documenting
them in real time and turning them into
real time public campaigns so people can
actually
crowdsource advocacy so people that even
only have like five minutes or 10
minutes a day or a week to get involved
in this these kind of issues they can
actually make a difference in real time
in a real person's life by writing to
their congressmen writing to lawmakers
mental health directors
administrators heads of hospitals um
experts attorneys um any action that we
put out in a call to action they can we
try to make it simple for them to do
that and if we apply public pressure in
a public campaign um to help alleviate
someone's situation someone who's being
subjected to horrific human rights
violations that's huge because it's
twofold
one that person then might be released
out of an institution or maybe the
authorities afraid of the bad press will
cease to subject that person to force
shock or Force strugging so on many
levels it can help alleviate that person
um and on another level it's an
opportunity to educate the public
because these abuses take place
typically in the shadows they are not
well known in the press the Press does a
horrible job of covering psychiatric
abuse that's a whole different issue
because of of the corruption in the
science and the data the um parents like
me caregivers and supporters of people
who are in the mental health system are
not aware that there are more Humane and
effective Alternatives as parents We're
Not educated uh about the soteria houses
pure resits pure services in General
open dialogue uh care farms in
Netherlands I could go on and on we are
simply not made aware of these options
in the United States it might be better
in your country but in my country we
have an organization called Nami
National Alliance for the mentally ill
which has pretty much got a monopoly on
the education of family members and
parents and I'm looking right now in my
hands I I'm holding their curriculum
called familyto family education program
and down at the bottom you have to be
very good with details to to realize
this when you take this class but the
fund the funding for this education it's
a very slick education program it's
funded by Osaka pharmaceutical's company
and um oh I I can't read the writing
it's too small it but it's I I know from
U my my past that these are these two
companies are the two manufactures of a
drug called Abilify Now Abilify some of
you may be um
uh aware or you've heard that's a brand
name I'm not sure what the generic name
of Abilify is if it may be ER prle or
something if you know what the name is
please put it in chat so these two
companies have funded what is the
largest family education on quote
unquote mental illness in the United
States so what's the matter with this
picture well if you open up the
curriculum and you read through it it is
just the most
horrific consolidation of propaganda and
misinformation I've ever seen and and
it's actually really depressing and I I
felt as a family member just taking the
six week familyto family class which is
delivered by the way by other family
members which are called peers in in
that Community um they the I I found it
just triggering and traumatizing simply
to take the class because it was so biob
bio bio he was so focused on on the
deficiencies of my daughter's brain and
and her faulty genes and there was no
mention of trauma there is no mention of
of spiritual crisis there was no mention
of Psychosocial approaches de hearing
voices or other uh quote unquote
symptoms of mental illness it was simply
not there so you know the me the drugs
was used constantly throughout the book
so anyway I found so traumatizing I
dropped out of the class and then that
that then I I started working for mind
Freedom which was much more hopeful and
it it just widened our family's Horizons
introduced me to the wonderful world of
Alternatives so the rest is history so
um I I don't know let's see um what are
we doing for time okay so since I'm
sharing I'm going to share my time with
you Tong so I I want someone to help me
um point out when running out of time um
because I don't want to rub you Tong the
you tongue the next presenter of her her
um time so don't worry you go as long as
you want okay you don't very very
generous of you um if you change your
mind just let me know because I don't
want to go on too long so so what what
this started um my my work with mine
Freedom that was inspired by my
daughter's um um experiences in the
mental health system
um it started when she had what I now
pretty much and and convinced was an
identity crisis um an existential crisis
you could say or a spiritual crisis or a
combination and it was complicated by
childhood trauma and also substance
abuse so when when I found out when my
daughter was in this very confused state
and I found out that she had been having
unprotected sex my first U response as a
mother was kind of like Panic oh my God
you've got to get tested for pregnancy
and and and sexual uh sexually
transmitted diseases so I was very
anxious to get a hold of her and during
a three-day period I couldn't find her
she was leaving her apartment and odd
hours and not picking up her phone and
and just kind of wandering around
aimlessly in in our hometown and so I
was very very distraught for three days
just trying to find her whereabouts and
when I finally got a hold of my daughter
walking down the streets because one of
my co-workers who knew about my concern
say hey isn't that your daughter walking
down the street and sure enough there
she was I ran out I got my car and I got
her into the car oh in instant relief
once she was in the car I thought okay
now I can get get her some help and in
my mind I'm I'm
medicalizing what what the solutions
were already now had I talked to my
husband who was um employed at an agency
in another part of town I might have
made a different decision but I
unilaterally made a decision to take my
daughter to the emergency room of our
local hospital and I I live with that
bad decision because I think it was one
of my worst decisions as a parent and
what happened to there was the start of
a pattern that had was very difficult to
break when I took her to the
one of the first things that happened
was she tried to get away and she wasn't
violent by the way she was just trying
to leave that hospital and she didn't
like the The Barrage of questions the
the blood draw for the Toxicology test
whatnot she was very distraught and and
this was not a good environment for her
but rather than thinking well you know
there's something wrong with this
environment I'm still in that mindset
there's something wrong with my daughter
I've got to get her her to she has to
have medical treatment so at some point
they had put her in an isolation room
and I at that point I was still allowed
access to that isolation room but at
some point I was drawn away by a staff
member in order to fill out paperwork
and by the time I got back to the
isolation room what my daughter was in
restraints and she had been forcibly
injected with howd doll paradol and that
that she just lost it at that point she
was just going bonkers wildly trying to
uh uh get out of these restraints she
was having a full-blown panic attack
screaming at the top of her lungs by
that time my
husband um had had got back from his
office he had gotten down to the
hospital to meet me and he asked the
nurse immediately is this necessary
seeing his daughter's his daughter his
baby daughter in restraints had to have
been traumatizing for him as well but
his reaction was so much in I in
retroactively speaking was so much more
appropriate than my reaction he was
immediately questioning authorities like
he he's like get my daughter out of
these restraints and they did but as
soon as they got my daughter out of this
restraints the same nurse that applied
the fivepoint restraints was the one
loosing them and and she was also the
one who had given the injection by force
and as soon as she was loose my daughter
punched that nurse in the face and the
reaction of the the hospital staff was
to call the police so right then my
daughter had a a criminal record and
this is this is the problem of of
medical health care in the United States
the medical medical system applies force
and violence to people who are in great
distress and then they react sometimes
not all the time but sometimes they
react violently my daughter by the way
had never been violent in her life that
I know of before that incident but now
she's she's a a criminal um capable of
assault at least that's what the record
shows so long story short I get involved
with mind freedom to change the mental
health system and I become aware of this
program called the shield and The Shield
is I think a wonderful program because
it gives people who have whose voices
have been suppressed a chance to tell
their story and although I'm I don't
have the training like of Chris M and so
I am not um I don't have any
professional uh uh storytelling or I
don't have any um interview training I
sort of just on the Fly learned how to
interview people without judgement and
without using medical model language
which I myself find triggering and I
know other people can find it triggering
so as a part of the shield program one
of the first things we do when people
call for support or for help or to file
a complaint or not file a complaint but
just make a complaint in general to
anyone they think will be sympathetic
that that's the majority of the calls we
receive at mind Freedom the first thing
I do is I start taking notes with their
permission of course and sometimes we
record the conversation and I can later
refer back to that and then I start bu
building a narrative based on that and
depending on the level of restrictions
they're under it could be very hard to
call some impatients back on the phone
sometimes you need a passcode sometimes
they lose their phone privileges
specifically because they're talking to
a human rights organization and word
gets out that we're concerned and so for
a variety of reasons people may be
afraid to continue to engage with they
may be afraid of retaliation but
depending on each situation we're able
to build on the narrative I I start a
draft and then we build on it and they
approve of the draft and once they
approve of that we call it a shield
alert it's basically a narrative what
happened to me and what what I want to
change the my goals and how people can
help me that's what a shield alert is so
it it might be as simple as call my
Congress man I'm being electroshock by
force it might be uh call or email the
administrator of this hospital this
person is being drugged against their
will and they're having a terrible side
effect called aesthesia and nobody's
listening to them so a shield alert will
have a like a a call to action and we
try to make it as possible as possible
for busy people to um take action and
and simply by taking a template we
provide or talking points that we
provide and here do this it will take
five minutes of your time every Shield
campaign is really different uh but I
can really relate to what Chris said
about this dis personality
disorder uh this is a form of
retaliation I'm I'm I'm calling it a
pattern because I'm seeing it more and
more when people call mind freedom and
then they launch an effective Shield
alert and by effect I say you know the
things the things some of their goals
are actually achieved because we bring
shed public light on it together when
that happens oftentimes then the mental
health authorities or the psychiatrists
or the treatment team will come back and
charge that add a new label to that
person's Cornucopia of existing
psychiatric labels and then personality
disorder always comes up it's either uh
Oppositional Defiant Disorder or
narcissist IC Personality Disorder so
this person not only has a chemical
imbalance this person also has a
personality dis talk about character
assassination talk about you know n a
nuclear bomb solution for someone who's
already disempowered maybe lost
everything they have because of a long
institutionalization or a long
hospitalization and now just to charge
him with this this horrible you know
give them a personality um label as well
it it's just it's unconscionable and I
and I see it a lot so it makes my blood
boil um but on the other hand the
antidote for disempowerment is
empowerment and it is lovely for me to
see people who spent many years in
psychiatric facilities and they identify
as ex-patients and psychiatric patients
it really gives me hope and pride to see
ex-patients get involved in Shield
campaign by going to bat for another
person it really gives me hope and
inspiration to see psych
survivors come out of a really bad
situation and say wow you know thank you
to this community for helping you and
and it it's just really really wonderful
to see friendships being formed you know
a friendship that might have started
because of a shield campaign or someone
advocating on behalf of another then it
turn it blossoms and it expands and it
turns into friendship and then these
friendships may you know unfold over
years and years so it's linking people
together and you know I've seen people
from the United States advocating for
people in Australia and vice versa um so
the UK um there are quite a few
countries where we've issued campaigns
although most of them do tend to be
centered in the United States we hope to
expand and and build more boots on the
ground in other countries so that Shield
camp aigns will become more common um
outside the United States but it is very
USA Centered for now um so right now the
the campaign that we're involved in I I
want to just take a little bit of time
to tell you about that campaign to give
you kind of an idea of some of the
intersections of force
Psychiatry um criminal law or Criminal
Justice System the prison system so um I
think it does a really it's a good
illustration of intersectionality but
before I like tell the story of D deuba
I'm wondering if there's any questions
or if anyone wants to um make a
comment Chris have raise his hand Chris
go ahead yeah thank you Sarah that was
uh really yeah very very interesting
there's so many uh aspects that I'd like
to explore but um if I can just sort of
uh validate that sort of uh sense that
you were conveying about we we take
people um from the outside where they
have Liberty and freedom and we place
them in an
institution and then when they react to
that removal from freedom and uh uh
Liberty and they react to it quite
naturally uh with feelings of
frustration
anger agitation what do we do we
suppress that and I think too many
societies and too many cultures do not
allow people to vent those inner
struggles to cry what do we do when a
friend cries we tend to say it'll be
okay don't don't cry don't
cry my sense is that there's huge value
in crying there's huge value in venting
you your just rage um your
frustrations it's it's been proven to be
so cathartic you know people that fall
ill one of the key elements of falling
ill is that we've done such a good job
of pushing things down
that eventually it spills over and
institutions and practitioners and
professionals want to continue
suppressing it pushing it down they want
us to be uh um uh they want us to be
compliant they want us to be subordinate
they want us to be
malleable and uh we've got to resist
that and you know I I I've got three
grandchildren and um whenever they're in
a bit of a rage I always say that's fine
that is fine so long as you don't hit
anyone
absolutely own that because my childhood
I was beaten round the head if I showed
any feelings yeah and I would never do
that to my children or my grandchildren
get in touch with those feelings and
these institutions
that use that form of Oppression have no
place in a therapeutic
sense thank you
thank I couldn't agree with you so
powerful I and and what um I I really
appreciate what you said about the
internalization um that that um I
there's so many things that are getting
internalized so so many messages of
hopelessness but having an outlet for
that anger and rage you are right on
that is if you have been the victim of
any kind of abuse in your life you have
reason to feel rage and anger grief a
sense of loss Lost Innocence you know
there's just so many negative emotions
that Psychiatry is not equipped to
handle however they don't even create a
dialogue with with their patients but
I'm going to say the these problems can
also be rooted in the family and so
family members need to come to the well
and drink from The Well of recovery here
because it's really I'm a big believer
Karen and and and Ron taught me this
that families can heal together so the
emotional neglect that I may be guilty
of as a mother when my children were
growing up I don't have to be that way
forever you know I can learn as I go on
all people are malleable all people have
the capacity to change and this includes
families this is the message of hope
that is left out of the curriculum for a
mental for caregivers it's considered to
the problems all stem from the
individual due to genetics or chemical
imbalance in the brain so that just
takes your hope out right right off the
bat well if you're if that's the only
narrative you're exposed to then you're
G to give up just like and children now
are exposed to Psychiatry at such early
ages that that disempowerment then is is
like inherent to their development and
you can't you can't it's almost almost
hard to find out like how to get out of
that now when Harriet Tubman a famous
abolitionist in American history who um
who was famous for uh safely leading
slaves in the South to the the northern
states where slavery was outlawed
somebody asked her uh how many slaves do
you think you freed and I think she made
some estimation but this she commented I
could have saved so many more people if
they had known they were slaves
so so I think the problem with
emancipation is without adopting the
tools of psychiatric oppression which is
to place our narrative onto other people
how do we lead people into a different
framework you know um without you know
coming up with our own agenda and our
own propaganda so being just learning I
think how to listen is a start and um
going back to the shield campaign you
know we really really are are um keen on
and on training a like a small army of
volunteers unpaid professionals
preferably be people with lived
experience um but we we train people not
to use medical model language not to
make assumptions that a person's violent
you know just because a person has been
stigmatized or or has been convicted of
a crime or charged with a crime not to
assume the person is violent not to
assume that they're not safe not to
assume that they have a chemical balance
you know not to assume that they have
like you know faulty genes and not to
assume that things are hopeless so in
that framework if you can live with a
lot of uncertainty a lack of lack of
clarity on a person's situation even
mystery if you can kind of learn to work
in and stay in that framework while
maintaining a healthy sense of curiosity
get to know a person who's in a psyart
get to know a person who's under court
order treatment order even though
they're living in the community find out
what the story is help them formulate
that story not like a bully don't push
your agenda on them but listen and then
when you're confused you need
clarification on point ask them repeat
it kind of what you just describe when
you're putting your book together I'm
like thinking wow where were you and I
needed you because I had to learn a lot
of this stuff just like um through
through uh you know by trial and error
you know I wish I had had someone with
your training um and experience to help
guide me through this process but um
anyway hopefully I can ask you questions
later so um I I did want to get just
back briefly um before I turn it over to
you Tong I I wanted to tell you about a
campaign that we we're currently
managing uh two public campaigns and we
have about four or five Shield campaigns
there various stages of develop so
development so before we we uh go public
with a campaign you know there's some
consensus has been reached on the
narrative so we have full permissions so
um just to borrow a a play from Chris's
book you know the the uh the Privacy is
T I mean that's like really high that's
just you know ultimate standard um and
we we have to explain to people
sometimes if people are cognitively
impaired by Decades of of psychiatric
drug use a lot of which was subjected to
them by force sometimes that cognitive
impairment may may may require several
explanation several you know sitting
down this is how the shield works are
you are you aware of how what a public
campaign is that uses social media are
you aware that we can't retract
everything once it's on the internet
there's footprints on the internet even
if we took it down off our website and
and we've encouraged other members to
share it with their private networks you
know we can't recall that so so you know
we basically have have to make sure that
people from a variety of of you know
cognitive abilities understand that this
is public um and what once that that is
um you know we have Clarity on that
that's when it's public so when I say
there are other public sh or Shield
campaigns are in stages of development I
just mean that that that dialogue before
we can go public is still kind of
ongoing in in the background and
sometimes we find out that there is a
way to resolve a person's bad situation
by working behind the scenes to help
match them to a good Advocate or a
mentor in the community so sometimes you
know you you get you put many many hours
into a a campaign it never goes public
but it's resolved favorably so that's
happening too in the background but
anyway one situation we had a caller her
name was D zuba and she called from the
state of
Missouri and she called from inside a
forensic Ward now as I got to know Don
better this became a source of curiosity
for me why is this woman in a forensic W
because she's never uh been convicted of
a crime well as it turns out this isn't
the only story it happens more
frequently than I had known but at the
time I didn't know this and I was very
curious about her situation and I and it
also be I became curious this person was
um not cognitively impaired preped she
was she was alert she was uh predictable
she was articulate um very coherent and
I found out that she um has a law degree
was a uh well I want to say is an
attorney but because of her psychiatric
hospitalization she was unable to pay to
keep her license so she's no longer a
member of the bar so she technically
can't practice law but she also has two
graduate degrees so I said okay okay
well this now I'm really curious so we
started calling we had started a
conversation that occurred over a period
of several years and she would also
express interest in our other
programming like we have this monthly uh
cross disabilities dialogue it's a
public meeting kind of like this but
it's international well it's
International like this I guess this is
international but it involves cross
disabilities so people with physical
disabilities rap and talk with people
with developmental intellect ual or
psychiatric disorders and um we'd find
Common Ground uh so anyway um and and
people too who are psychiatric survivors
who don't identify with being disabled
they also are part of this conversation
so um it's a rights-based conversation
it happens on a on a monthly basis it's
called Judy's room and it's named after
Judy Chamberlain a famous uh human
rights activist who was one of uh mind
freedoms early uh board members so
um she wanted to participate in those
programs Don did and so I patched her in
by she by she didn't have access to the
computer um but she did have access to
the phone so she would call in I would
put her on speaker phone and I would
hold the phone really close to my
computer so she could hear other
speakers and then when she wanted to
raise her hand or put her get in the
queue she would tell me because I was
muted and then I would tell the the
other groups in the virtual meeting and
then she could speak and it was kind of
like I I would always say to myself why
is this person being so cut off from the
outside world she has two graduate
degrees she's a
lawyer um and she can't even have access
to a computer so I come to find out that
10 years ago she had accused one of her
colleagues at a university of
misappropriating federal funds now we're
not talking about just a couple hundred
dollars like Petty catch we're talking
about millions of dollars millions of
dollars of research funding it had
something to do with big tobacco and
those of you who followed the big
tobacco controversy knows there's a huge
huge controversy in settlement involving
big tobacco so anyway um she she had
accused this colleague of
misappropriating funds and then she went
to a
meeting involving her colleagues that
she was not invited to and they called
the security they called the police they
they charged her with
trespassing and then let's see um then
in a follow-up email I believe she made
a comment to one of her former
colleagues and it was cc to all their
Mutual colleagues and it the the the
recipient of that message considered it
to be threatening and they later called
it a terrorist threat and So based on
those two accus ation she was charged
with
trespassing um and making terrorist
threats and but she was never convicted
of it and she never was given a jury
trial and instead she was put under
guardianship which basically took away
all of her right it took away her right
to live where she wanted to live it took
away her her ability to make her own
medical decisions
so she was being subjected to
psychiatric treatment for 10 years
she's been in his forensic facility
which though she's never been convicted
of her crime something didn't smell like
pass the smell test here so you know we
talked about our Shield alert and she
always said no no I'm gonna find a
different way around my situation I
don't want to go public you know maybe
she wanted to protect your reputation or
something so I didn't get a call from
here until I went many almost a whole
year I think without hearing from her
then I got a call in July from her and
she was feeling I could tell she was
under a lot of stress and she said I
think I want to issue a P public Shield
alert and I said what's going on and she
said well I filed a complaint against
another staff member and by the way
that's something that people in the
United States are legally entitled to do
file a complaint against an abusive
staff member and she said in retaliation
they're taking away all my visitors all
my trips to the library I can't leave
the ward I can't leave my room most of
the time um I don't have access to the
phone if I'm seeing on the phone they're
going to come grab the phone away from
me sure enough like within a couple of
minutes of her having said that a staff
member saw that she was on the phone
grabbed the phone and clicked it and
that that ended that conversation so
ever since our conversation have been
very intermittent very unstable I never
know when we're going to get hung
up but we did get enough information to
know she wanted to issue is Shield alert
so I started working on it and what what
we are probably three months
into DA's Shield campaign right now and
we've got some interest in two lawmakers
at the state and federal level who are
starting to look at our case but still
no interest from the media this has
always been a huge barrier for us is to
get media attention for these Shield
campaigns so um I'm just going to um
leave it at that because um I don't want
to steal too much of U Tong's time I
think I've already kind of gone over my
share of the time um and so I I do want
to introduce you to
yukong um yong's pronouns are she and
they you um uong is associated with the
university in New York and I forgotten
Yong will have to tell you herself and
forgive me uong um
utong is a mathematician and does a lot
of computer work and has recently
started volunteering for mind Freedom
which I'm very grateful for I'm very
excited maybe to work with uong on
updating our website and our
Communications
platforms um but yeah so I just want to
turn it over to her now and um maybe if
there's questions for any remainder of
what I said maybe we could you Tong and
I can take those questions together
however Eric wants to do
that hello can you all hear
me hello with you D thank you can you
hear me I can hear you okay great uh now
can you see my
screen we can but it's so small it needs
to be spotlighted and enri you know how
to um Spotlight his her screen in in
Google
yes yeah then then then you do it I I I
I can see if I can get the camera
working well I can see your screen but
it's too small it needs it need like
maybe my maybe I need to change my view
on my end so I can see it better I will
also work on the settings now is a
spotlight if we silence the mic he's GNA
be on top and I will work to make it
better if I can
okay mean
you yeah okay then I don't think I can
get the camera working I tried so hard
but yeah so uh I'm go so